README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <h1 align="center">🤖 MRAgent</h1>
  <p align="center">
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/bonza-mragent/">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/bonza-mragent.svg?style=flat-square" alt="PyPI version" />
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/bonzainsights/MrAgent/releases">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/bonzainsights/MrAgent?style=flat-square" alt="GitHub release" />
    </a>
    <br/>
    <strong>A lightweight, open-source AI Agent powered by free APIs</strong>
  </p>
  <p align="center">
    <a href="#features">Features</a> •
    <a href="#architecture">Architecture</a> •
    <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a> •
    <a href="#api-providers">API Providers</a> •
    <a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a>
  </p>
</p>

---

## ✨ Overview

**MRAgent** is a lightweight AI agent that connects to **free-tier LLM and multimodal APIs** to deliver a powerful, personal assistant experience — without expensive subscriptions. It combines text generation, image generation, text-to-speech, speech-to-text, screen monitoring, web browsing, code execution, terminal access, and file management into a single, extensible agent.

> **Philosophy:** Leverage the best free APIs available (primarily from NVIDIA and other open-source providers) to build an agent that rivals commercial solutions.

---

## 🚀 Features

| Capability               | Description                                                          | Status         |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| 💬 **LLM Chat**          | Multi-model text generation (GPT-OSS, Kimi, GLM-5, Llama 3.3)        | ✅ Implemented |
| 🎨 **Image Generation**  | Text-to-image via FLUX.1 Dev (default) & Google AI Studio (optional) | ✅ Implemented |
| 🗣️ **Text-to-Speech**    | Natural voice synthesis via **Edge TTS** (Free, Neutral)             | ✅ Implemented |
| 👂 **Speech-to-Text**    | Audio transcription via **Groq Whisper v3** (Ultra-fast)             | ✅ Implemented |
| 📧 **Email Skill**       | Send & receive emails via AgentMail (Interactive `/email` command)   | ✅ Implemented |
| 📱 **Telegram Bot**      | Chat, Voice, & Image interaction                                     | ✅ Implemented |
| 💓 **VivreCard**         | Background Scheduler & Heartbeat System                              | ✅ Implemented |
| 🛡️ **Poneglyph**         | System Guardian & Doctor (Auto-diagnostics)                          | ✅ Implemented |
| 🌐 **Web Browsing**      | Autonomous internet surfing and information gathering                | ✅ Implemented |
| 🖥️ **Screen Monitoring** | Capture and analyze screen content in real-time                      | ✅ Implemented |
| 💻 **Code Execution**    | Write, run, and debug code in multiple languages                     | ✅ Implemented |
| 🔧 **Terminal Access**   | Execute shell commands and system operations                         | ✅ Implemented |
| 📁 **File Management**   | Navigate, create, move, and organize files                           | ✅ Implemented |
| 🔍 **Web Search**        | Search with citations via Brave, Google, or LangSearch               | ✅ Implemented |
| 📄 **PDF Reader**        | Read & extract text from PDFs with page markers                      | ✅ Implemented |
| 📛 **Identity Setup**    | Interactive wizard to customize User and Agent persona               | ✅ Implemented |
| 🛡️ **Injection Defense** | Structural tagging & sanitization of untrusted external data         | ✅ Implemented |
| ⚡ **Smart Autonomy**    | Tiered trust levels (cautious/balanced/autonomous) for 24/7 ops      | ✅ Implemented |
| 🧭 **Screen Guidance**   | `/guide` command — capture screen & get AI-powered guidance          | ✅ Implemented |

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
MRAgent/
├── main.py               # Entry point & startup
├── requirements.txt      # Python dependencies
├── .env.example          # Template for API keys
│
├── config/
│   └── settings.py       # Config, model registry, autonomy settings
├── core/
│   └── poneglyph.py      # System Guardian & Doctor
├── agents/
│   ├── core.py           # Core agent loop + tiered approval logic
│   ├── prompt_enhancer.py # System prompt & context injection
│   ├── watcher.py        # Eagle Eye screen monitor
│   └── vivrecard.py      # Background scheduler
├── skills/
│   ├── agentmail.py      # Email skill
│   └── telegram.py       # Telegram skill
├── providers/
│   ├── nvidia_llm.py     # NVIDIA LLM (GPT-OSS, Kimi, GLM, Qwen)
│   ├── nvidia_image.py   # Image generation (SD 3.5, FLUX)
│   ├── tts.py            # Edge TTS
│   ├── nvidia_stt.py     # Groq STT
│   ├── brave_search.py   # Brave Search (with citations)
│   ├── google_search.py  # Google Custom Search
│   └── langsearch.py     # LangSearch API
├── tools/
│   ├── terminal.py       # Shell command execution
│   ├── file_manager.py   # File CRUD operations
│   ├── browser.py        # Web fetch & search (with sanitizer)
│   ├── pdf_reader.py     # PDF text extraction
│   ├── screen.py         # Screen capture & diff
│   ├── code_runner.py    # Python code execution
│   └── image_gen.py      # Image generation tool
├── ui/
│   ├── cli.py            # Rich CLI (commands, menus, autonomy)
│   ├── web.py            # Flask Web Interface
│   └── telegram_bot.py   # Telegram bot
├── utils/
│   ├── sanitizer.py      # Prompt injection defense
│   ├── logger.py         # Logging
│   └── helpers.py        # Shared utilities
├── memory/
│   └── chat_store.py     # SQLite chat persistence
└── data/                 # Runtime data (gitignored)
    ├── chats.db
    ├── images/
    └── logs/
```

---

## 🛠️ Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Python 3.10+**
- Free API keys (see [API Providers](#api-providers))
- <a href="https://build.nvidia.com/models">Nvidia</a>
- <a href="https://groq.com">Groq</a>
- <a href="https://aistudio.google.com">Google AI Studio</a> `(optional) set IMAGE_PROVIDER=google in .env to use instead of FLUX`
- <a href="https://brave.com/search/api/">Brave</a> `you can just use langsearch but brave gives better results`
- <a href="https://langsearch.com">LangSearch</a>
- <a href="https://agentmail.to">AgentMail</a>

### Installation

#### **One-Line Installer (Recommended)**

**Mac/Linux:**

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bonzainsights/MrAgent/main/install.sh | bash
```

**Windows (PowerShell):**

```powershell
iwr https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bonzainsights/MrAgent/main/install.bat | iex
```

#### **Pip (Python Package)**

If you have Python 3.10+ installed:

```bash
pip install bonza-mragent
mragent
```

#### **Homebrew (macOS)**

```bash
brew install --HEAD https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bonzainsights/MRAgent/main/Formula/mragent.rb
```

#### **Manual Setup (Advanced)**

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/bonzainsights/MrAgent.git
cd MRAgent

# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Set up your environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your API keys
```

### Quick Start

If you boot the system without API keys or an identity configured, an **Interactive Setup Wizard** will safely guide you through copying your free NVIDIA NIM key and naming your Assistant before booting automatically!

```bash
# Run the agent (CLI mode + Web UI)
python main.py

# Run as Telegram bot
python main.py --mode telegram

# Run System Diagnostic
python main.py doctor
```

---

## 🔑 API Providers

MRAgent is built around **free-tier APIs** to keep costs at zero. Here are the current providers:

### NVIDIA NIM (Primary)

| Model                     | Purpose                     | API        |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------- | ---------- |
| GPT-OSS-120B              | Reasoning (Primary)         | NVIDIA NIM |
| Kimi K2.5                 | General-purpose LLM         | NVIDIA NIM |
| GLM-5                     | Reasoning & code            | NVIDIA NIM |
| Llama 3.3 70B             | Reliable fallback           | NVIDIA NIM |
| Qwen2.5 Coder             | Code generation             | NVIDIA NIM |
| FLUX.1 Dev                | Image generation (default)  | NVIDIA NIM |
| Stable Diffusion 3 Medium | Image generation (fallback) | NVIDIA NIM |

### Other Free Providers

| Provider          | Purpose             | Service                       |
| ----------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| **Groq**          | Speech-to-Text      | Whisper Large v3 (Free)       |
| **Edge TTS**      | Text-to-Speech      | Microsoft Edge Neural (Free)  |
| **AgentMail**     | Email               | AgentMail.to (Free)           |
| **Brave Search**  | Web search          | Brave Search API (Free)       |
| **Google Search** | Web search          | Custom Search JSON API (Free) |
| **LangSearch**    | Web search          | LangSearch API (Free)         |
| **Telegram**      | Messaging Interface | Telegram Bot API (Free)       |

> 💡 **Adding new providers?** Implement the base interface in `providers/base.py` and register your provider in the config.

---

## 🗺️ Roadmap

- [x] Project setup & repository initialization
- [x] Core agent loop with task planning
- [x] NVIDIA LLM integration (multi-model)
- [x] Image generation pipeline
- [x] Text-to-speech (Edge TTS)
- [x] Speech-to-text (Groq Whisper)
- [x] Telegram bot interface (Voice & Image support)
- [x] Web Interface (Chat & Voice)
- [x] Email Integration (AgentMail)
- [x] VivreCard Scheduler
- [x] Poneglyph System (Guardian & Doctor)
- [x] Multi-provider search (Brave, Google, LangSearch)
- [x] Terminal & code execution tools
- [x] File management system
- [x] Screen monitoring & analysis
- [x] Web browsing automation
- [x] Security: Terminal/Code Execution Approvals (HitL)
- [x] Security: Web UI & Telegram Authentication
- [x] Interactive Startup Wizards (API Keys & Identity)
- [x] NVIDIA API Key Consolidation (Global Defaulting)
- [x] Prompt injection defense (structural data tagging & sanitization)
- [x] Smart autonomy system (cautious/balanced/autonomous trust levels)
- [x] PDF reader tool (page-by-page extraction)
- [x] Search citations (numbered source URLs in results)
- [x] Screen guidance pipeline (`/guide` command)
- [x] UI polish (compact startup, personalized welcome)

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

---

## 📄 License

This project is open source. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

MRAgent uses free-tier API keys which may have rate limits and usage quotas. The agent is designed to work within these constraints. Never commit your `.env` file or expose API keys publicly.

---

<p align="center">
  Built with ❤️ by <a href="https://github.com/bonzainsights">Bonza Insights</a> & <a href="https://github.com/achbj">achbj</a>
</p>

Commit message:

feat: Enhance installation instructions with pipx support and PATH troubleshooting, and bump version to 0.2.3.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <h1 align="center">🤖 MRAgent</h1>
  <p align="center">
    <a href="https://pypi.org/project/bonza-mragent/">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/bonza-mragent.svg?style=flat-square" alt="PyPI version" />
    </a>
    <a href="https://github.com/bonzainsights/MrAgent/releases">
      <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/bonzainsights/MrAgent?style=flat-square" alt="GitHub release" />
    </a>
    <br/>
    <strong>A lightweight, open-source AI Agent powered by free APIs</strong>
  </p>
  <p align="center">
    <a href="#features">Features</a> •
    <a href="#architecture">Architecture</a> •
    <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a> •
    <a href="#api-providers">API Providers</a> •
    <a href="#roadmap">Roadmap</a>
  </p>
</p>

---

## ✨ Overview

**MRAgent** is a lightweight AI agent that connects to **free-tier LLM and multimodal APIs** to deliver a powerful, personal assistant experience — without expensive subscriptions. It combines text generation, image generation, text-to-speech, speech-to-text, screen monitoring, web browsing, code execution, terminal access, and file management into a single, extensible agent.

> **Philosophy:** Leverage the best free APIs available (primarily from NVIDIA and other open-source providers) to build an agent that rivals commercial solutions.

---

## 🚀 Features

| Capability               | Description                                                          | Status         |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| 💬 **LLM Chat**          | Multi-model text generation (GPT-OSS, Kimi, GLM-5, Llama 3.3)        | ✅ Implemented |
| 🎨 **Image Generation**  | Text-to-image via FLUX.1 Dev (default) & Google AI Studio (optional) | ✅ Implemented |
| 🗣️ **Text-to-Speech**    | Natural voice synthesis via **Edge TTS** (Free, Neutral)             | ✅ Implemented |
| 👂 **Speech-to-Text**    | Audio transcription via **Groq Whisper v3** (Ultra-fast)             | ✅ Implemented |
| 📧 **Email Skill**       | Send & receive emails via AgentMail (Interactive `/email` command)   | ✅ Implemented |
| 📱 **Telegram Bot**      | Chat, Voice, & Image interaction                                     | ✅ Implemented |
| 💓 **VivreCard**         | Background Scheduler & Heartbeat System                              | ✅ Implemented |
| 🛡️ **Poneglyph**         | System Guardian & Doctor (Auto-diagnostics)                          | ✅ Implemented |
| 🌐 **Web Browsing**      | Autonomous internet surfing and information gathering                | ✅ Implemented |
| 🖥️ **Screen Monitoring** | Capture and analyze screen content in real-time                      | ✅ Implemented |
| 💻 **Code Execution**    | Write, run, and debug code in multiple languages                     | ✅ Implemented |
| 🔧 **Terminal Access**   | Execute shell commands and system operations                         | ✅ Implemented |
| 📁 **File Management**   | Navigate, create, move, and organize files                           | ✅ Implemented |
| 🔍 **Web Search**        | Search with citations via Brave, Google, or LangSearch               | ✅ Implemented |
| 📄 **PDF Reader**        | Read & extract text from PDFs with page markers                      | ✅ Implemented |
| 📛 **Identity Setup**    | Interactive wizard to customize User and Agent persona               | ✅ Implemented |
| 🛡️ **Injection Defense** | Structural tagging & sanitization of untrusted external data         | ✅ Implemented |
| ⚡ **Smart Autonomy**    | Tiered trust levels (cautious/balanced/autonomous) for 24/7 ops      | ✅ Implemented |
| 🧭 **Screen Guidance**   | `/guide` command — capture screen & get AI-powered guidance          | ✅ Implemented |

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
MRAgent/
├── main.py               # Entry point & startup
├── requirements.txt      # Python dependencies
├── .env.example          # Template for API keys
│
├── config/
│   └── settings.py       # Config, model registry, autonomy settings
├── core/
│   └── poneglyph.py      # System Guardian & Doctor
├── agents/
│   ├── core.py           # Core agent loop + tiered approval logic
│   ├── prompt_enhancer.py # System prompt & context injection
│   ├── watcher.py        # Eagle Eye screen monitor
│   └── vivrecard.py      # Background scheduler
├── skills/
│   ├── agentmail.py      # Email skill
│   └── telegram.py       # Telegram skill
├── providers/
│   ├── nvidia_llm.py     # NVIDIA LLM (GPT-OSS, Kimi, GLM, Qwen)
│   ├── nvidia_image.py   # Image generation (SD 3.5, FLUX)
│   ├── tts.py            # Edge TTS
│   ├── nvidia_stt.py     # Groq STT
│   ├── brave_search.py   # Brave Search (with citations)
│   ├── google_search.py  # Google Custom Search
│   └── langsearch.py     # LangSearch API
├── tools/
│   ├── terminal.py       # Shell command execution
│   ├── file_manager.py   # File CRUD operations
│   ├── browser.py        # Web fetch & search (with sanitizer)
│   ├── pdf_reader.py     # PDF text extraction
│   ├── screen.py         # Screen capture & diff
│   ├── code_runner.py    # Python code execution
│   └── image_gen.py      # Image generation tool
├── ui/
│   ├── cli.py            # Rich CLI (commands, menus, autonomy)
│   ├── web.py            # Flask Web Interface
│   └── telegram_bot.py   # Telegram bot
├── utils/
│   ├── sanitizer.py      # Prompt injection defense
│   ├── logger.py         # Logging
│   └── helpers.py        # Shared utilities
├── memory/
│   └── chat_store.py     # SQLite chat persistence
└── data/                 # Runtime data (gitignored)
    ├── chats.db
    ├── images/
    └── logs/
```

---

## 🛠️ Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- **Python 3.10+**
- Free API keys (see [API Providers](#api-providers))
- <a href="https://build.nvidia.com/models">Nvidia</a>
- <a href="https://groq.com">Groq</a>
- <a href="https://aistudio.google.com">Google AI Studio</a> `(optional) set IMAGE_PROVIDER=google in .env to use instead of FLUX`
- <a href="https://brave.com/search/api/">Brave</a> `you can just use langsearch but brave gives better results`
- <a href="https://langsearch.com">LangSearch</a>
- <a href="https://agentmail.to">AgentMail</a>

### Installation

#### **One-Line Installer (Recommended)**

**Mac/Linux:**

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bonzainsights/MrAgent/main/install.sh | bash
```

**Windows (PowerShell):**

```powershell
iwr https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bonzainsights/MrAgent/main/install.bat | iex
```

#### **Pip / Pipx (Python Package)**

**Recommended — uses `pipx` (handles PATH automatically):**

```bash
pip install pipx
pipx install bonza-mragent
mragent
```

**Standard pip install:**

```bash
pip install bonza-mragent
mragent
```

> ⚠️ **`mragent` not found after pip install?** Pip places the `mragent` script in a folder that may not be on your PATH. Run the fix for your OS:
>
> **macOS/Linux** — add `~/.local/bin` to PATH:
>
> ```bash
> echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshrc && source ~/.zshrc
> ```
>
> **Windows** — add Python Scripts to PATH (run in PowerShell as Admin):
>
> ```powershell
> $scripts = [System.IO.Path]::Combine($env:APPDATA, "Python", "Python" + $PSVersionTable.PSVersion.Major * 100, "Scripts")
> [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable("Path", $env:Path + ";" + $scripts, "User")
> ```
>
> Then **restart your terminal** and type `mragent`.
>
> Alternatively, run `pip show bonza-mragent` to find the `Location`, then add `<Location>/../Scripts` (Windows) or `<Location>/../../../bin` (macOS) to your PATH.

#### **Homebrew (macOS)**

```bash
brew install --HEAD https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bonzainsights/MRAgent/main/Formula/mragent.rb
```

#### **Manual Setup (Advanced)**

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/bonzainsights/MrAgent.git
cd MRAgent

# Create a virtual environment
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate  # Windows: .venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Set up your environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your API keys
```

### Quick Start

If you boot the system without API keys or an identity configured, an **Interactive Setup Wizard** will safely guide you through copying your free NVIDIA NIM key and naming your Assistant before booting automatically!

```bash
# Run the agent (CLI mode + Web UI)
python main.py

# Run as Telegram bot
python main.py --mode telegram

# Run System Diagnostic
python main.py doctor
```

---

## 🔑 API Providers

MRAgent is built around **free-tier APIs** to keep costs at zero. Here are the current providers:

### NVIDIA NIM (Primary)

| Model                     | Purpose                     | API        |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------- | ---------- |
| GPT-OSS-120B              | Reasoning (Primary)         | NVIDIA NIM |
| Kimi K2.5                 | General-purpose LLM         | NVIDIA NIM |
| GLM-5                     | Reasoning & code            | NVIDIA NIM |
| Llama 3.3 70B             | Reliable fallback           | NVIDIA NIM |
| Qwen2.5 Coder             | Code generation             | NVIDIA NIM |
| FLUX.1 Dev                | Image generation (default)  | NVIDIA NIM |
| Stable Diffusion 3 Medium | Image generation (fallback) | NVIDIA NIM |

### Other Free Providers

| Provider          | Purpose             | Service                       |
| ----------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| **Groq**          | Speech-to-Text      | Whisper Large v3 (Free)       |
| **Edge TTS**      | Text-to-Speech      | Microsoft Edge Neural (Free)  |
| **AgentMail**     | Email               | AgentMail.to (Free)           |
| **Brave Search**  | Web search          | Brave Search API (Free)       |
| **Google Search** | Web search          | Custom Search JSON API (Free) |
| **LangSearch**    | Web search          | LangSearch API (Free)         |
| **Telegram**      | Messaging Interface | Telegram Bot API (Free)       |

> 💡 **Adding new providers?** Implement the base interface in `providers/base.py` and register your provider in the config.

---

## 🗺️ Roadmap

- [x] Project setup & repository initialization
- [x] Core agent loop with task planning
- [x] NVIDIA LLM integration (multi-model)
- [x] Image generation pipeline
- [x] Text-to-speech (Edge TTS)
- [x] Speech-to-text (Groq Whisper)
- [x] Telegram bot interface (Voice & Image support)
- [x] Web Interface (Chat & Voice)
- [x] Email Integration (AgentMail)
- [x] VivreCard Scheduler
- [x] Poneglyph System (Guardian & Doctor)
- [x] Multi-provider search (Brave, Google, LangSearch)
- [x] Terminal & code execution tools
- [x] File management system
- [x] Screen monitoring & analysis
- [x] Web browsing automation
- [x] Security: Terminal/Code Execution Approvals (HitL)
- [x] Security: Web UI & Telegram Authentication
- [x] Interactive Startup Wizards (API Keys & Identity)
- [x] NVIDIA API Key Consolidation (Global Defaulting)
- [x] Prompt injection defense (structural data tagging & sanitization)
- [x] Smart autonomy system (cautious/balanced/autonomous trust levels)
- [x] PDF reader tool (page-by-page extraction)
- [x] Search citations (numbered source URLs in results)
- [x] Screen guidance pipeline (`/guide` command)
- [x] UI polish (compact startup, personalized welcome)

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

---

## 📄 License

This project is open source. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

MRAgent uses free-tier API keys which may have rate limits and usage quotas. The agent is designed to work within these constraints. Never commit your `.env` file or expose API keys publicly.

---

<p align="center">
  Built with ❤️ by <a href="https://github.com/bonzainsights">Bonza Insights</a> & <a href="https://github.com/achbj">achbj</a>
</p>
